# MkDocs Multi-Language Project Manager

This tool helps manage multi-language MkDocs projects, allowing you to create, configure, clone, and manage multiple MkDocs sites within a single project structure.

## Overview

Our philosophy for organizing multi-language MkDocs projects is to treat each language version as an individual MkDocs site. This approach allows for independent management of each language while maintaining a unified structure under a single main directory. Each language-specific MkDocs site resides in its own sub-directory at the same hierarchical level, as illustrated below:

```
/website-project/      # Main Project Directory
├── mk-website_en/     # MkDocs site in English
│   ├──docs/
│   ├──mkdocs.yml
├── mk-website_fr/     # MkDocs site in French
├── mk-website_de/     # MkDocs site in German
...
```

With this mindset, we developed a tool to facilitate the management of these sites. The tool organizes them within a single directory structure, enhancing maintainability, flexibility, and ease of installation. The structure includes shared resources and configurations, as shown below:

```
/website-project/      # Main Project Directory
├── mkdocs-lang.yml    # Configuration file for mkdocs-lang
├── mkdocs.yml.template # Template YAML for MkDocs
├── requirements.txt   # Shared requirements for all MkDocs sites
├── venv/              # Shared virtual environment for all MkDocs sites
├── mk-website_en/     # MkDocs site in English
│   ├──docs/
│   ├──mkdocs.yml
├── mk-website_fr/     # MkDocs site in French
├── mk-website_de/     # MkDocs site in German
...
```

> **Note:** The `mkdocs-lang.yml`, `mkdocs.yml.template`, `requirements.txt`, and `venv/` are auto-generated by the tool and can be customized by the user to fit specific project needs.

This structure allows for centralized management of all language-specific MkDocs sites, making it easier to synchronize files, manage configurations, and perform Git operations.

## Features

- **File and directory synchronization** across multiple MkDocs sites.
- **Automated Git actions** like clone, status, pull, and sync (commit & push).
- **Configurable list of MkDocs sites** that allows each site to be stored in any path.
- **Universal command execution** across all MkDocs sites.

## Installation

To install this tool, you need to clone the repository and use `pip` to install it locally. Follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:TechxArtisanStudio/MkDocs-Lang.git
   cd MkDocs-Lang
   ```

2. Install the package using `pip`:
   ```bash
   pip install .
   ```

This will make the `mklang` command available for system-wide CLI usage.

## Usage

The tool provides several command-line actions to manage your MkDocs projects:

### Create a New Project

Initialize a new MkDocs multi-language project directory.

```bash
mklang newproject --project /path/to/new/project/website-project --github <github-account>
# or using short options
mklang newproject -p /path/to/new/project/website-project -g <github-account>
```

> **Note:** The `--project` option may not be required if `mklang` is run inside an existing MkDocs-Lang project directory.

For detailed instructions, see the [Create a New Project documentation](docs/newproject.md).

### Create a New MkDocs Site

Add a new MkDocs site to your multi-language setup. For detailed instructions, see the [Create a New MkDocs Site documentation](docs/newsite.md).

```bash
mklang newsite <mkdocs-site> --project <path-to-the-mainproject> --lang <language-code>
# or using short options
mklang newsite <mkdocs-site> -p <path-to-the-mainproject> -l <language-code>
```

> **Note:** The `--project` option may not be required if `mklang` is run inside an existing MkDocs-Lang project directory.

### Clone GitHub Repositories

Clone an existing GitHub repository into your MkDocs project setup.

```bash
mklang addsite <repo-url> --lang <language-code> --project <path-to-main-project>
# or using short options
mklang addsite <repo-url> -l <language-code> -p <path-to-main-project>
```

> **Note:** The `--project` option may not be required if `mklang` is run inside an existing MkDocs-Lang project directory.

For detailed instructions, see the [Add GitHub Repositories documentation](docs/addsite.md).

### Execute a Custom Command

Run a custom command across all MkDocs sites within a specified directory structure.

```bash
mklang run "<the-customized-command-line>" --project /path/to/website-project
# or using short options
mklang run "<the-customized-command-line>" -p /path/to/website-project
```

> **Note:** The `--project` option may not be required if `mklang` is run inside an existing MkDocs-Lang project directory.

For detailed instructions, see the [Universal Command Line Action documentation](docs/run.md).

### Remove a MkDocs Site

Remove a MkDocs site from the main project.

```bash
mklang removesite <site-name> --project <path-to-main-project>
# or using short options
mklang removesite <site-name> -p <path-to-main-project>
```

> **Note:** The `--project` option may not be required if `mklang` is run inside an existing MkDocs-Lang project directory.

For detailed instructions, see the [Remove a MkDocs Site documentation](docs/removesite.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. 